#Code Cloner ##clones Source code between CSPROJ files**Wait, no I don't.** Code Cloner creates links in the destination `.csproj` project file to the code files in the source `.csproj`, automating the process of adding an existing file as a link into the destination project. The files are added as relative paths if that's how they start out. If they were originally absolute paths then that is preserved.  If they already had a link I'll try not to break it. ##Why Even Is This?I ([CADbloke](https://CADbloke.com/)) write AutoCAD plugins, amongst other things. They also need to run in IntelliCAD, NanoCAD, BricsCAD as well as a lot of versions of AutoCAD. The build settings, .NET framework version and project references are very different between the platforms but they can (generally) share most of source code. *Write once, build many*.   I tried other approaches but they were [horribly](http://www.theswamp.org/index.php?topic=41868.msg497509#msg497509 "HORRIBLY") [complicated](http://www.theswamp.org/index.php?topic=49039.msg541752#msg541752 "COMPLICATED") and Nuget broke most of them. Ok, I broke them with Nuget. This Solution (see what I did there?) means you can separate the build and code concerns. I also like being able to step through the debugger and see what the code is doing in a specific build. I also like to see what `#if~ compiler directives do to my code. ###a couple of suggested ways to use this   1. Visual Studio Project pre-build process, add the command line(s) with args to your source project's `Build Events` tab in the `Project Properties` window, in the `Pre-build event command line:` text box. If you add it to the source project it updates its destinations whenever you build it. The targets don't have to be loaded in Visual Studio, actually life is (much) easier if they aren't because VS will want to reload them if/when they change.      1. Set up a `.cmd` or `.bat` with a command line or few and run me when you think it all needs a refresh. 1. Diff all the things after a clone to make sure I haven't eaten a kittenThere is a log file called *CodeClonerLog.txt* saved in the same folder as the executable. If you use me as a *pre-build process* The Visual Studio output window will have some summary information but the details will be in the log file. Good luck finding anything in the output window anyway ###Usages...`CODECLONER /?`  `CODECLONER [Folder] [/s]`  `CODECLONER [Source.csproj] [Destination.csproj]`    `/?` &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;    Help!  `Folder` &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Clones the source(s) into all `CSPROJ` files in the folder  `/s` &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;    Also iterates all subfolders. You just forgot to add this, right?`Source.csproj`      &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  Path to the CSPROJ with the source to be cloned.  `Destination.csproj` &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  Path to ... duh.- Wrap paths with spaces in double quotes. - Paths can (probably should!) be relative,.  - Relative paths on the command line are relative to the executable- Relative paths in the destination `.csproj` are relative the that destination `.csproj`  - `Source.csproj` is optional on the command line , if you specify one  `.csproj` file it is the destination, in which case you need to have the source project in the placeholder. If you specify a source this overrides any sources you have set in the destination `.csproj` file's placeholder###The Destination CSPROJ file needs this XML comment placeholder...    <!-- CodeCloner    Source: PathTo\\NameOfProject.csproj <== this is optional    Exclude: PathTo\\FileToBeExcluded.cs <== this is optional    -->        <!-- EndCodeCloner -->This is where the code goes.##iFAQa**i**n**F**requently **A**sked **Q**uestion **a**nswers  - You can add more code or whatever to the destination project, just don't put it between the "clone zone" placeholders or it will be removed in the next clone.  - You will probably have to build your solution twice if a project is changed by a code-cloning process, mostly because of parallel builds and all that, the project was probably building while it was also being cloned. Expect that to be troublesome at times.- You may specify multiple `Source:` projects. I don't know wildcards so you will have to list them all individually.  - I don't check for duplicated things, especially from multiple source projects.  - If you don't specify a source in the placeholder it better be in the command line call.  - `Exclude:` file or path. No wildcards here either. It is a simple `String.Contains()` filter. The log will tell you what was excluded and why.- If you specify multiple `Exclude:` items then they must be on separate lines. - Every Code Clone will re-clone the source CSPROJ into the "clone zone" between the XML comment placeholders.  - ALL code inside this "clone zone" is refreshed every time. OK?- I usually drop the executable in the solution root folder (it makes working out relative paths easier) and check it in to Git but ignore the *CodeClonerLog.txt* log file.- The log file is continuous - delete it to reset it or you can mess with it in a text editor. - It doesn't replicate Project references, or any references at all.- Shared Projects don't have the source code right in front of you, don't do 3rd party libraries etc.. ok, if they do then I got it wrong. Tell me how.- This is a v1 - use it at your own risk. I may eat your kittens. I don't think it will but I've been wrong before. See the Refund Policy below for more details.- does it work with VB? Nup. Feel free to change that but I don't VB so I didn't try.- refactoring code with `#if` compiler directives can be tricky####This is the bare-bones placeholder with no options specified...    <!-- CodeCloner -->        <!-- EndCodeCloner -->####This is a random *pre-build process*line example I just made up...    codecloner \SourceProject.csproj \Destination1\Destination1.csproj    codecloner \SourceProject.csproj \Destination2\Destination2.csproj    codecloner \Destination3\Destination3.csproj`Destination3.csproj` in this example will need to have a source `.csproj` specified in the XML comment placeholder or it will crash out. The log will let you know. Maybe.  command line usage looks the same, only in a `.bat` file and paths are [relative to the `.bat` file](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14936625/relative-path-in-bat-script)More Info & Source at [https://github.com/CADbloke/CodeCloner](https://github.com/CADbloke/CodeCloner "Code Cloner @ GitHub"). I'm also happy to hear of any issues &/or suggestions (Pull Requests are even better!). ####Refund policyGet your credit card pic retweeted at [https://twitter.com/needadebitcard](https://twitter.com/needadebitcard "DO NOT DO THIS !!") and I will refund you twice the price you paid for this. For further dtails see the [Extended Refund Policy](http://www.seobook.com/freetards "This is not you, right?")   ####Code Cloner by CADbloke